Assignment 4: Blotto Competition

Objectives
to use the map ADT
to implement the map ADT using a hash table

Introduction
Blotto is a simultaneous game for two players in which the players distribute militatry units over a number of battlefields (in addition to simulating military conflicts over multiple battlefields, Blotto can be seen a a model of allocating campaign resources over contested areas, or spreading advertising resources across various media outlets). Each player has a set number of units to distribute, each unit is equivalent to each other unit, and a unit must be allocated entirely to a single battlefield. Each battlefield is worth a given number of points based on its strategic value, and the player who allocates more units to a battlefield wins the points for that battlefield (with the points split evenly in case of a tie, including a 0-0 tie).
For example, suppose there are four battlefields worth 1, 2, 3, and 4 points respectively and each player has 10 units to distribute. If player 1's distribution is (2,2,2,4) and player 2's distribution is (3,4,2,1) then player 1 wins battlefield 4, player 2 wins battlefields 1 and 2, and the players tie on battlefield 3. Player 1's score is then 5.5 and player 2's score is 4.5.
The winner of a single one-on-one competition is the player with the most points in that competition; the competition is a draw (12 win each) if the score is tied.
A variant of Blotto allows for multiple players. Each player submits a single entry, and the entries are played against each other two at a time. The objective can be to accumulate the most wins or the most total points. For example, if we have the two entries above and a third entry (2,2,6,0) then P1 beats P2 5.5-4.5, P1 beats P3 5.5-4.5, and P2 beats P3 7-3. If the overall champion is determined by number of wins, then P1 is the champion with 2 wins. If the overall champion is determined by total score then the champion is P2 with 11.5.
Details of the project: https://zoo.cs.yale.edu/classes/cs223/f2021/Assignments/blotto.html
